(Is "touch" a good word to describe the fact that the segment intersects the interior of the tile? Would "meet" be better? "Touch" seems to me more graphical)

Some directions in which generalizations could be attempted:

|- Rectangular grid instead of square. Is this an interesting generalization? I think Proposition 1 remains as in the square case. In Proposition 2, the first two conditions would carry over replacing i by i*a and j by j*b. For Proposition 3, its figure should again have axes i,j replaced by axes i*a,j*b. That way the distance condition on length based on i, j (Psoposition 2) is still a circle in the figure. How does the sequence of chosen (i,j) pairs change? It looks like there may not a pattern as simple as in the square case (whic is: i,i, then (i+1),i, then increase i and repeat). The order of the grid points (i,j) by increasing distance to (2,2) is more arbitrary. But a pattern can be found

- Compute the average number of squares touched, when the segment is dropped randomly with a uniform distribution of positions and orientations. I think this is interesting, as it is similar to the Buffon and Buffon-Laplace problems (https://www.ias.ac.in/article/fulltext/reso/003/09/0070-0073). One segment endpoint would have a uniform distribution on a fixed square, and the direction would have a uniform distribution on [0,2*pi), or [0,pi/2), or even [0,pi/4) would suffice, I think. Also, the interval can be open, any value has probability zero. Likewise, events like the segment passing through a grid point can be disregarded. Anyway, this seems to be difficult problem. A starting point could be: given endpoint (or midpoint) coordinates x, y, a segment length, and a grid square: draw a circle with that endpoint (midpont) as center and the segment length (or half that) as radius, and determine what fraction of the circle touches the square (then, averaging over a uniform distribution for x, y seems easy). It seems several cases need to be distinguised, regarding the relative position and distance between the endpoint/midpoint and the square. /. Done! It was easy indeed

Do we need to discuss potential applications of this (if we can find any)? This probably depends on the journal

Do we need a section with conclusions? Probably not; depends on the journal

Is "canonical rectangle" a good name? "Canonical" is close to what I wanted, but perhaps a better word can be found for "smallest and wih sides following grid lines"

Are "sufficient" and "minimal sufficient" good names? They are used in statistics: analogously?

"Pseudo-inverse" sequences: is there an established name for the relationship between the two sequences?

(Include a,b as subscripts of the functions? I don't think so; it would make notation heavier and it's usually clear what the valuees of a and b are)

Is the square case with a neq 1 y and integer lengths interesting? (I don't think so). And, would it be possible to generalizar results from a=1, integer length to that case? Alex's formula maybe? That "2" multiplying L^2 looks moderately promising. From that the inverse formular could be derived. The properties about increments would change. Probably not very interesting

Parts that are incomplete or need to be worked on are marked with two or three asteriscs (two are like C's /*...*/ for a comment; three are like C's //... for a line comment
